{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red133\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c60000\c0\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11920\viewh18200\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Zuzanna Zgierska\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 Ex.citable Inter.faces\

\f0\i0 Graduation project 2020\
Royal Academy of Art, The Hague
\f1\i\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Ex.citable Inter.faces 
\f0\i0 is a live installation which registers a bio-encounter between the two interlinked realms: the human and the technical. The reverse engineering of a touchscreen strives to rethink the interlinked politics, economics, and aesthetics of surfaces and to deviate from the origin of interface which lies in ancient trade technologies. While the capitalist poetics of ex- (excavation, extraction, explosion, exclusion, exhaustion, extinction) view the surface of the Earth as an alien Other and domesticate the anthropogenic monstrosities through the sublime beauty of bird-view photography, here
\f1\i  
\f0\i0 a different mode of looking is proposed. Under a microscope, all surfaces are in flux; they are spaces of constant phase transitions from one state of matter to the other. No fixtures, no borders, no finalities exist here. In this installation the screen has been covered with chiral nematic liquid crystals, which can be found both in the living bodies as well as in the intricate architectures of touchscreens. These milky proteins have the properties between those of conventional liquids and those of solid crystals. These chemical compounds are therefore the embodiments of phase transitions, as they oscillate between the different states of matter. Looking through these ubiquitous, vibrant molecules maps new relationships between humans and matter. This surface creates an osmosis between the subject and the object of viewing, between the sender and the receiver. They invite to view the matter in a non-hierarchical, non-binary way: beyond the cold tokens of 0 and 1.
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec3 Supervisors:
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec3 Jan Robert Leegte, Thomas Bux\'f3
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec3 In collaboration with:
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec3 Jaap Meijers (Hacklab, Royal Academy of Art, The Hague)
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec3 KIT-Archiv (Karlsruhe Institute of Technology)
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec3 Prof.dr. Stephen J. Picken (Advanced Soft Matter, Delft University of Technology)\
\
Installation:\
acrylic frame, 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 copper plates painted black, chiral nematic liquid crystal chemical compound, 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 thermoelectric Peltier modules, self-made printed circuit boards, 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 Arduino, 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 cables, 10\'92 video of 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 chiral nematic liquid crystals under microscope, microscope, screen projection
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\
\
\
}